---
title: My Path to Web Development Part 2
date: 2015-08-27 16:44 UTC
tags:
---

I was now tasked at figuring out what I wanted to do with my life and choosing a new major. 
I dabbled in Policy Studies during my second semester but had to finally admit that I wasn’t really “political”. Sophomore year had now arrived and I was still unsure of which path to take. Then one day I had an epiphany. When I wanted to become an interior designer I always imagined having my own design firm or opening a high-end furniture store. As a child I convinced my friends to help me set up a cookie stand at the entrance of our apartment complex. I launched ‘Rachael’s Cleaning Service’ in my home and posted my prices on the inside of our front door. (Yes, I tried to charge my mom for doing chores). I had the blood of an entrepreneur! I immediately felt a rush of rejuvenation and basked in that moment of clarity. Wait, you can major in Entrepreneurship? Yep, and Syracuse had a top ranked program. Ironically, I purposely had not applied to any design specific schools in case I changed my mind (which I didn’t think I would). The stars seemed to have finally aligned, and I concluded that the even younger me wasn’t completely clueless. 

I transferred into the School of Management and began my study of business. I wasn’t able to take Entrepreneurship classes until junior year because I had to complete core business classes first. But once I settled into my major I loved it! One of my favorite classes was Entrepreneurship & Digital Marketing. This is when my interest it the web was re-born.  A lot had happened between 2003 and 2006. Facebook launched in 2004 and Mark Zuckerberg was a Rockstar. That same year Google went public and Web 2.0 was THE buzzword. The web evolved into a space of user-generated content and websites became web applications. Everyone was trying to figure out how they could capitalize on it. I learned about SEO, Google Analytics and why it all mattered. I was very interested in this aspect marketing. I also finally revisited coding. I was a member of the campus gospel choir, BCCE, and ran for the position of Historian partly because the duties included maintaining the website. In order to prepare for the position I signed up an Intro to HTML class and attended workshops on Dreamweaver and FrontPage. Oh 2006. I remembered how awesome coding was , and I was grateful for the opportunity to receive formal training. I rocked as Historian and maintained the website for 2 years. 

I graduated in 2007 with an interest in digital marking and starting a business. My first job was as an Admissions Rep (sales) for a computer training school. Sales was good experience but not exactly my forte, so in 2008 I relocated from my hometown in Delaware to Washington, DC in search of new opportunities. In 2008 the recession hit and my main source of income was temp work. This was a hard time. I had to hustle to make ends meet, but I believed that things would get better. They did and at the end of 2009 I received a job offer to work as a Market Intelligence Analyst for a consulting firm supplying research to companies seeking government contracts. I continued to learn more about web design in my free time, and I taught myself how to build sites with WordPress. I was always brainstorming business ideas and my my desire to start my a business grew as well. I continued my career in marketing and eventually moved back to Delaware just as news hit that my company was being bought out and being merged with our competitor. My new position was as a Market Analyst for a publishing company doing email marketing. By this time the web was changing again and the mobile revolution was in full effect. Dedicated mobile websites vs. responsive web design was a hot topic, and I thought, "how can I capitalize on this shift?"

Part 3 TBC...